P a g e | 32
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“According to you,” Vernon Dursley said now,
resuming his pacing up and down the living room,
“we — Petunia, Dudley, and I — are in danger. From
— from —”
“Some of ‘my lot,’ right,” said Harry.
“Well, I don’t believe it,” repeated Uncle Vernon,
coming to a halt in front of Harry again. “I was awake
half the night thinking it all over, and I believe it’s a
plot to get the house.”
“The house?” repeated Harry. “What house?”
“This house!” shrieked Uncle Vernon, the vein in his
forehead starting to pulse. “Our house! House prices
are skyrocketing around here! You want us out of the
way and then you’re going to do a bit of hocus-pocus
and before we know it the deeds will be in your name
and —”
“Are you out of your mind?” demanded Harry. “A plot
to get this house? Are you actually as stupid as you
look?”
“Don’t you dare — !” squealed Aunt Petunia, but
again, Vernon waved her down: Slights on his
personal appearance were, it seemed, as nothing to
the danger he had spotted.
“Just in case you’ve forgotten,” said Harry, “I’ve
already got a house, my godfather left me one. So why
would I want this one? All the happy memories?”
There was silence. Harry thought he had rather
impressed his uncle with this argument.
“You claim,” said Uncle Vernon, starting to pace yet
again, “that this Lord Thing —”
P a g e | 33
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“— Voldemort,” said Harry impatiently, “and we’ve
been through this about a hundred times already.
This isn’t a claim, it’s fact, Dumbledore told you last
year, and Kingsley and Mr. Weasley —”
Vernon Dursley hunched his shoulders angrily, and
Harry guessed that his uncle was attempting to ward
off recollections of the unannounced visit, a few days
into Harry’s summer holidays, of two fully grown
wizards. The arrival on the doorstep of Kingsley
Shacklebolt and Arthur Weasley had come as a most
unpleasant shock to the Dursleys. Harry had to
admit, however, that as Mr. Weasley had once
demolished half of the living room, his reappearance
could not have been expected to delight Uncle
Vernon.
“— Kingsley and Mr. Weasley explained it all as well,”
Harry pressed on remorselessly. “Once I’m seventeen,
the protective charm that keeps me safe will break,
and that exposes you as well as me. The Order is sure
Voldemort will target you, whether to torture you to
try and find out where I am, or because he thinks by
holding you hostage I’d come and try to rescue you.”
Uncle Vernon’s and Harry’s eyes met. Harry was sure
that in that instant they were both wondering the
same thing. Then Uncle Vernon walked on and Harry
resumed, “You’ve got to go into hiding and the Order
wants to help. You’re being offered serious protection,
the best there is.”
Uncle Vernon said nothing, but continued to pace up
and down. Outside the sun hung low over the privet
hedges. The next-door neighbor’s lawn mower stalled
again.
“I thought there was a Ministry of Magic?” asked
Vernon Dursley abruptly.
P a g e | 34
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“There is,” said Harry, surprised.
“Well, then, why can’t they protect us? It seems to me
that, as innocent victims, guilty of nothing more than
harboring a marked man, we ought to qualify for
government protection!”
Harry laughed; he could not help himself. It was so
very typical of his uncle to put his hopes in the
establishment, even within this world that he
despised and mistrusted.
“You heard what Mr. Weasley and Kingsley said,”
Harry replied. “We think the Ministry has been
infiltrated.”
Uncle Vernon strode to the fireplace and back,
breathing so heavily that his great black mustache
rippled, his face still purple with concentration.
“All right,” he said, stopping in front of Harry yet
again. “All right, let’s say, for the sake of argument,
we accept this protection. I still don’t see why we can’t
have that Kingsley bloke.”
Harry managed not to roll his eyes, but with difficulty.
This question had also been addressed half a dozen
times.
“As I’ve told you,” he said through gritted teeth,
“Kingsley is protecting the Mug — I mean, your Prime
Minister.”
“Exactly — he’s the best!” said Uncle Vernon, pointing
at the blank television screen. The Dursleys had
spotted Kingsley on the news, walking along
discreetly behind the Muggle Prime Minister as he
visited a hospital. This, and the fact that Kingsley had
mastered the knack of dressing like a Muggle, not to
P a g e | 35
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
mention a certain reassuring something in his slow,
deep voice, had caused the Dursleys to take to
Kingsley in a way that they had certainly not done
with any other wizard, although it was true that they
had never seen him with his earring in.
“Well, he’s taken,” said Harry. “But Hestia Jones and
Dedalus Diggle are more than up to the job —”
“If we’d even seen CVs …” began Uncle Vernon, but
Harry lost patience. Getting to his feet, he advanced
on his uncle, now pointing at the TV set himself.
“These accidents aren’t accidents — the crashes and
explosions and derailments and whatever else has
happened since we last watched the news. People are
disappearing and dying and he’s behind it —
Voldemort. I’ve told you this over and over again, he
kills Muggles for fun. Even the fogs — they’re caused
by dementors, and if you can’t remember what they
are, ask your son!”
Dudley’s hands jerked upward to cover his mouth.
With his parents’ and Harry’s eyes upon him, he
slowly lowered them again and asked, “There are …
more of them?”
“More?” laughed Harry. “More than the two that
attacked us, you mean? Of course there are, there are
hundreds, maybe thousands by this time, seeing as
they feed off fear and despair —”
“All right, all right,” blustered Vernon Dursley.
“You’ve made your point —”
“I hope so,” said Harry, “because once I’m seventeen,
all of them — Death Eaters, dementors, maybe even
Inferi — which means dead bodies enchanted by a
Dark wizard — will be able to find you and will
P a g e | 36
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
certainly attack you. And if you remember the last
time you tried to outrun wizards, I think you’ll agree
you need help.”
There was a brief silence in which the distant echo of
Hagrid smashing down a wooden front door seemed
to reverberate through the intervening years. Aunt
Petunia was looking at Uncle Vernon; Dudley was
staring at Harry. Finally Uncle Vernon blurted out,
“But what about my work? What about Dudley’s
school? I don’t suppose those things matter to a
bunch of layabout wizards —”
“Don’t you understand?” shouted Harry. “They will
torture and kill you like they did my parents!”
“Dad,” said Dudley in a loud voice, “Dad — I’m going
with these Order people.”
“Dudley,” said Harry, “for the first time in your life,
you’re talking sense.”
He knew that the battle was won. If Dudley was
frightened enough to accept the Order’s help, his
parents would accompany him: There could be no
question of being separated from their Diddykins.
Harry glanced at the carriage clock on the
mantelpiece.
“They’ll be here in about five minutes,” he said, and
when none of the Dursleys replied, he left the room.
The prospect of parting — probably forever — from
his aunt, uncle, and cousin was one that he was able
to contemplate quite cheerfully, but there was
nevertheless a certain awkwardness in the air. What
did you say to one another at the end of sixteen years’
solid dislike?
P a g e | 37
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Back in his bedroom, Harry fiddled aimlessly with his rucksack, then poked
a couple of owl nuts through
the bars of Hedwig’s cage. They fell with dull thuds to
the bottom, where she ignored them.
“We’re leaving soon, really soon,” Harry told her. “And
then you’ll be able to fly again.”
The doorbell rang. Harry hesitated, then headed back
out of his room and downstairs. It was too much to
expect Hestia and Dedalus to cope with the Dursleys
on their own.
“Harry Potter!” squeaked an excited voice, the
moment Harry had opened the door; a small man in a
mauve top hat was sweeping him a deep bow. “An
honor, as ever!”
“Thanks, Dedalus,” said Harry, bestowing a small and
embarrassed smile upon the dark-haired Hestia. “It’s
really good of you to do this. … They’re through here,
my aunt and uncle and cousin. …”
“Good day to you, Harry Potter’s relatives!” said
Dedalus happily, striding into the living room. The
Dursleys did not look at all happy to be addressed
thus; Harry half expected another change of mind.
Dudley shrank nearer to his mother at the sight of
the witch and wizard.
“I see you are packed and ready. Excellent! The plan,
as Harry has told you, is a simple one,” said Dedalus,
pulling an immense pocket watch out of his waistcoat
and examining it. “We shall be leaving before Harry
does. Due to the danger of using magic in your house
— Harry being still underage, it could provide the
Ministry with an excuse to arrest him — we shall be
driving, say, ten miles or so, before Disapparating to
the safe location we have picked out for you. You
P a g e | 38
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
know how to drive, I take it?” he asked Uncle Vernon politely.
“Know how to — ? Of course I ruddy well know how to
drive!” spluttered Uncle Vernon.
“Very clever of you, sir, very clever, I personally would
be utterly bamboozled by all those buttons and
knobs,” said Dedalus. He was clearly under the
impression that he was flattering Vernon Dursley,
who was visibly losing confidence in the plan with
every word Dedalus spoke.
“Can’t even drive,” he muttered under his breath, his
mustache rippling indignantly, but fortunately neither
Dedalus nor Hestia seemed to hear him.
“You, Harry,” Dedalus continued, “will wait here for
your guard. There has been a little change in the
arrangements —”
“What d’you mean?” said Harry at once. “I thought
Mad-Eye was going to come and take me by SideAlong-Apparition?”
“Can’t do it,” said Hestia tersely. “Mad-Eye will
explain.”
The Dursleys, who had listened to all of this with
looks of utter incomprehension on their faces, jumped
as a loud voice screeched, “Hurry up!” Harry looked
all around the room before realizing that the voice
had issued from Dedalus’s pocket watch.
“Quite right, we’re operating to a very tight schedule,”
said Dedalus, nodding at his watch and tucking it
back into his waistcoat. “We are attempting to time
your departure from the house with your family’s
Disapparition, Harry; thus, the charm breaks at the
P a g e | 39
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
moment you all head for safety.” He turned to the
Dursleys. “Well, are we all packed and ready to go?”
None of them answered him. Uncle Vernon was still
staring, appalled, at the bulge in Dedalus’s waistcoat
pocket.
“Perhaps we should wait outside in the hall,
Dedalus,” murmured Hestia. She clearly felt that it
would be tactless for them to remain in the room
while Harry and the Dursleys exchanged loving,
possibly tearful farewells.
“There’s no need,” Harry muttered, but Uncle Vernon
made any further explanation unnecessary by saying
loudly,
“Well, this is good-bye, then, boy.”
He swung his right arm upward to shake Harry’s
hand, but at the last moment seemed unable to face
it, and merely closed his fist and began swinging it
backward and forward like a metronome.
“Ready, Diddy?” asked Aunt Petunia, fussily checking
the clasp of her handbag so as to avoid looking at
Harry altogether.
Dudley did not answer, but stood there with his
mouth slightly ajar, reminding Harry a little of the
giant, Grawp.
“Come along, then,” said Uncle Vernon.
He had already reached the living room door when
Dudley mumbled, “I don’t understand.”
“What don’t you understand, popkin?” asked Aunt
Petunia, looking up at her son.
P a g e | 40
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Dudley raised a large, hamlike hand to point at
Harry.
“Why isn’t he coming with us?”
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia froze where they
stood, staring at Dudley as though he had just
expressed a desire to become a ballerina.
“What?” said Uncle Vernon loudly.
“Why isn’t he coming too?” asked Dudley.
“Well, he — he doesn’t want to,” said Uncle Vernon,
turning to glare at Harry and adding, “You don’t want
to, do you?”
“Not in the slightest,” said Harry.
“There you are,” Uncle Vernon told Dudley. “Now
come on, we’re off.”
He marched out of the room. They heard the front
door open, but Dudley did not move and after a few
faltering steps Aunt Petunia stopped too.
“What now?” barked Uncle Vernon, reappearing in the
doorway.
It seemed that Dudley was struggling with concepts
too difficult to put into words. After several moments
of apparently painful internal struggle he said, “But
where’s he going to go?”
Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon looked at each other.
It was clear that Dudley was frightening them. Hestia
Jones broke the silence.
P a g e | 41
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“But … surely you know where your nephew is
going?” she asked, looking bewildered.
“Certainly we know,” said Vernon Dursley. “He’s off
with some of your lot, isn’t he? Right, Dudley, let’s get
in the car, you heard the man, we’re in a hurry.”
Again, Vernon Dursley marched as far as the front
door, but Dudley did not follow.
“Off with some of our lot?”
Hestia looked outraged. Harry had met this attitude
before: Witches and wizards seemed stunned that his
closest living relatives took so little interest in the
famous Harry Potter.
“It’s fine,” Harry assured her. “It doesn’t matter,
honestly.”
“Doesn’t matter?” repeated Hestia, her voice rising
ominously. “Don’t these people realize what you’ve
been through? What danger you are in? The unique
position you hold in the hearts of the anti-Voldemort
movement?”
“Er — no, they don’t,” said Harry. “They think I’m a
waste of space, actually, but I’m used to —”
“I don’t think you’re a waste of space.”
If Harry had not seen Dudley’s lips move, he might
not have believed it. As it was, he stared at Dudley for
several seconds before accepting that it must have
been his cousin who had spoken; for one thing,
Dudley had turned red. Harry was embarrassed and
astonished himself.
“Well … er … thanks, Dudley.”